Okay, now we're in.
These are from the states that I settled.
This has got nothing to do with, I have a collection of soap.
I try to find a home for a collection of soap.
Not one of the samples is less than 50 years old.
Now, is this from your business?
Yeah, it's from, these are part of sorting out.
These are duplicates.
You know, here's, I collect Charles Bukowski, who's sort of a beat author.
These are duplicates of... Now, why are you interested in Bukowski?
I like, I read Bukowski.
I like his stuff.
This pile, this is a hern that was done in Cincinnati.
I bought two copies, but I figured, geez, you can't go wrong on this one.
Mm-hmm.
By the Public Library.
1983.
Cincinnati.
First edition.
1983.
That cost, uh, $95.
That's pretty good.
Bird and Bull Press?
Well, no, I've decided I've just got the bird of duplicates.
I think I have it.
That's not a bad idea, actually.
These are Hearn's duplicates.
This is Dubkowski.
I click Norman Douglas.
Those are duplicates.
There's some Moser Press.
There's some Roycroft.
This is Asbury.
That's okay.
These are... Oh, these are Federal Works WPA.
Yeah, this is the Reiner's Project, and I have this pile and this pile and this pile.
I just sold those to a lawyer in Los Angeles for $1,250.
I put them on bathroom scale yesterday, and they weigh 211 pounds.
I'm trying to figure out how to get them to Los Angeles.
But they're interesting.
Okay.
Some of them I haven't even taken out of the packages.
You know, that's 1968.
That's been in a package for 25 years?
Yeah, yeah.
Why?
The inventory of printing, a bibliography edited by D.C.
McMurtry.
McMurtry wrote about... The book book.
Yeah.
A hand list of American publications, 1876-1900.
This is a package that hasn't been opened since 1968.
Oh, listen, I've got something better than that.
So...
Somebody would love to get this, but I just sold it.
These are ship's documents from Newport and Bristol go down.
There's six volumes, and they're a mini-graph.
That's got 800 pages in it.
And they're in perfect condition.
You couldn't find better condition.
How long have you had that?
Oh, I've had it a good long time.
Now, why is it still in its package?
Well, because what do you do with it?
Why did you get it?
Well, because I was collecting WPA stuff, you know.
So it's still part of the collection, then?
Yeah.
Well, here's some more of these documents.
1941, and that book is 51 years old.
Here are four other.
There are six volumes in total.
Let me grant.
You would never...
Where would you find that if you were looking for it?
You tell me, right?
This is great.
Just keep going.
You enjoy this, obviously.
Well, it's fun.
You know, it's a hobby.
Did you ever collect stamps or any other type of a thing?
No, I collected some first editions as a poet.
James Dickey.
And one day I read one, and I decided I didn't like them.
So I'm going to get rid of those, in case you know anybody who wants to get 20 first editions of James Dickey.
Why did you begin collecting it?
Well, because I'd heard about them, you know, and it's collecting.
The movie Deliverance, you see, that was his novel.
I've heard about them, and I said that my wife collects, I really collect for her.
You saw that downstairs.
Oops, be careful.
Now these, these are Rackham's.
There's a box, everything here.
And they really are, this is in fine condition.
Oh, isn't it gorgeous?
Signed by author Rackham 25.
Number 25 of 50 copies.
Mm-hmm.
And we have a pretty good collection of Rackham knives.
Checking by file cards, I'd say we have a hundred different fragments.
This is one.
Here's another one you can see.
Have you given any thought to what happens to all this?
Yeah, I have.
I'm struggling with that.
And it isn't easy.
There used to be a bookshop called Keswick in New York.
They moved around.
He's now up in a retirement village in Connecticut.
And he and his wife came down here, Herman Cohen, his name is.
I said, Herman, what do I do with these things?
He wrote me a long letter afterwards, and he said, the first thing to do, he says, is to get rid of your duplicates.
And this was such a simple... Immediate solution.
Immediate solution.
But I don't know why I didn't think of it, you know?
These are all duplicate Henry Millers.
Those are, that's junk back there.
These are book oddities.
You know, here's a book in the shape of a fan.
There's a book with a wooden cover.
I don't know what that is.
Oh, yeah, that's interesting.
But it's a duplicate.
I can't get this rebound.
I've tried.
They say they can't press it.
Oh, it's coins.
Yeah.
Look at them.
Now, is any of Blumenthal's stuff up here?
Those are facsimile coins.
A book of facsimile coins.
I wish I knew how to get that.
David Block, who's a dealer, his wife is Chinese.
She's a binder, and she had that for a couple months.
Couldn't do it.
See, there's a duplicate.
Oh, there's the buffalo head, yeah.
Yeah.
This is Henry Miller.
I don't know.
Now, here is, these are, this is my collection of, or some of it, of Bernhard Wall.
Now, this is the kind of bindings he usually had.
This is why dealers think they're junk, you see.
Mm-hmm.
It's a duplicate.
So how are we selling these?
Through dealers?
Well, I don't know.
There are 200 copies.
But they're interesting.
He's really quite an artist.
...volumes, and they did some things.
This is the third item of the Ashadine Press.
Oh.
which was done for each set of odd volumes, and that's a duplicate.
I have two copies.
So I'm going to sell that, and Boomer's have offered me $500 for that.
That's a good deal.
Yeah, Boomer's good.
Yeah, I paid $1.75 for it.
I'm not telling them that.
That's irrelevant.
Yeah.
Well, you know, if you keep things for 50 years, you...
He did a lot of things on Lincoln.
That's pretty good.
That's nice.
Carl Sandburg.
Juvenile, that is.
Yeah, here's a book, you know.
Like a truck.
Yeah.
A cut book.
So I sort of slowed down on juveniles.
Well, a lot of them aren't, there's so many of them, they're almost not art anymore.
Yeah, yeah.
We moved here in 1950.
You found this, this was a package that was in the attic when you moved here?
No, I found it recently.
I've been sorting out for two years, and as part of the sorting, I found, I found this.
to me in New Jersey, and it's postmarked June 17, 1957.
We moved here in June of 1957, so apparently I brought the package over, and I found it six months ago.
It was still unwrapped.
It sent you from Seattle, Washington.
Yeah, so for 35 years,
That package was unopened.
I opened it, and these are juveniles from the 40s.
And they were brand new, do you think?
Yeah.
Look at that.
They're the book shaped like a train.
These are things that are... Do you remember ordering them?
Well, I must have... When I was out there, I ordered them, I guess.
And the guy sent them to you.
Look, that is... Things get a little mixed up.
So...
That package was unopened for 35 years.
Do you like it?
Is it nice stuff?
Yeah, sort of.
You know, like these are juveniles.
So then I found a package.
I found a letter.
There was a well-known dealer, Delton Americano, the name of Bill Smith.
He was in Cincinnati for years, the Union Central building.
That's where the trolley used to come in.
And he wrote to me, October 5, 1955, we have your letter.
First things that we're shipping you today, Targ's bibliography, and so-and-so.
Asbury, the French Quarter.
It's not first issue.
See, I was collecting Asbury.
We have a crane's worst kind, but it's not fine conditions.
and so-and-so, I will be in business at my home in Fort Thomas, Kentucky, doing a mail order, but he's closed up his shop, you see.
So... At that time, I ordered some things for him, 1955.
And by God, I found them out in the garage recently.
I get a sense that once you acquire the thing, that's the kick.
And then you almost forget about it.
Well, you know, what can you do?
There are 40 items here written by McMurtry.
He wrote about printing subjects.
Douglas McMurtry.
I bought these things.
They've been wrapped up since 1955.
Now, somebody would love to get those.
They have no reason to keep them.
But who?
If I hear anybody, I'll let you know.
They're in perfect condition.
But there's, you can say you've seen a package that's not open for 37 years.
That's great.
I had a grand opening party.
I call it Bob Messman.
He makes miniature books.
No, he opened these.
You have no idea what's in there, right?
No, no.
I had no idea what's in these packages.
I sort of hate to get rid of the rackets.
This is the sorting area that we're in now, right?
Yeah, that newspaper that was in there dated 1957.
From where?
From Seattle, Washington.
Seattle Post-Intelligence.
That ties it all together.
Well,
Let's go look at Mr. Brinstein.
These are some of my... You're teasing me.
These are some of my collection of WPA things.
Oh, that's great.
A whole case.
I bought the two bookcases a couple months ago, and I put them... New York, Panorama, Minnesota, Arrowhead Country.
Yeah.
I did some ephemeral stuff in the county.
There's a...
Here's the Idaho guide.
My state guides are in the attic, which you're welcome to see.
No, this is this way.
This was the first.
Idaho.
And it was done by Vardis Fisher.
And he autographed this.
Isn't that nice?
That's pretty nice.
I paid $7.50 for it.
$7.50 in a dust jacket.
Yeah, how about that?
I just sold a copy for $150.
You're talking about... I bought these as a remainder.
Look at the condition of this.
I found there's an unopened box out in the garage that has 25 copies of this in it.
No, that's Minnesota Arrowhead.
Minnesota Arrowhead Country, American Guide Series.
The Minnesota Arrowhead Country, isn't it?
25 copies.
in the garage.
So why did you buy 25?
Well, because it was a good deal.
I paid a dollar a piece for it.
The Cuddlewood is the Minnesota Arrowhead Country.
No, no Cuddlewood.
Minnesota Arrowhead Country, American Guide Series.
The other bookcase are duplicates that I'm trying to get rid of.
The All-American Guide series.
I saw the... How extensive would you say your collection is of federal writer's project stuff?
How extensive?
Extensive, would you say?
I'll show you my file box on it.
Well, anyhow, I'm going to sell these.
See, most of them are in...
Good condition.
Some of them are not even out of the wrappers.
It's an Ohio Book System.
Yeah.
1954.
They built a city, meaning Cincinnati.
Four copies.
1954.
It's never been opened.
We're talking the bookseller who sent it to you, tied and twined.
Yeah, I bought four copies for them.
Where's the postage on it, out of curiosity?
Twenty-four cents.
And, you know, they're in fine condition.
Here's a... This is another copy of it that I bought separately.
Let's see.
1958.
You contacted some collectors.
A couple of collectors and proposed that we swap duplicates.
And they both jumped at this.
One was a lawyer from Los Angeles.
I said, what kind of a law firm do you have?
Oh, he says, I've got about 30 lawyers here.
That's the one who arrived in the stretch limousine.
Oh, he came, yeah.
And we swapped until I ran out of things.
Well, he brought stuff with him then.
Yeah.
And then there was a research chemist from the Pfizer drug company by the name of Jin Ye, Chinese.
And he came.
He spent a day here.
He took about 30 items, bought the check for around $1,500, put them all in a knapsack.
Isn't that great?
And again, these were WPA things?
Yeah.
The Chinese guy was interested in WPA things.
Was he American or was he Chinese?
Well, he's Chinese.
But his wife taught at Yale, and he was a research chemist for Pfizer on 42nd Street in New York.
And then she lost her job, and she got another job at, I think it's Reed College in Portland.
So they moved there.
Portland, Maine, or Oregon?
Portland, Oregon.
So he called last evening.
He wanted to come out today.
I said, Jen, I'm sorry.
I'm busy tomorrow.
So apparently he wants to buy all those.
Okay.
So then at the Boston Book Fair last year, I saw a guy buying that book, Central Valley Private Route.
I watched him.
I went up to him afterwards, tapped him on the shoulder, and I said, gee, I saw you find a WPA book.
Do you collect me?
He said, yeah.
Well, I said, I've got a lot of duplicates.
So he came down from Bellows Falls, and he left the check for about $1,500.
He must have been thrilled.
Yeah, he was.
He said, geez, it would take me years to collect these.
I sold a few a couple weeks ago to...
dealer in Whitestone, West Virginia.
So these three piles have been sold to this lawyer from Los Angeles, if I could get them out there.
These are going.
That's part of my collection.
Good for you.
So you're moving it.
Yeah, but it's a slow process.
I've been sorting these for two years.
That gives you something to do, right?
Two years, yeah.
Let's go see the Blumenthal books.
I decided at one point along the line I'd solve the space problem by collecting miniature books, three inches and under in size.
But now I have 3,000, so they've gotten out of hand, and these boxes contain duplicates.
Of miniature books.
Duplicates.
Look at them.
There's a book in there.
This is a miniature.
Let me just open it again.
I have, Nick, I have 3,000 duplicate miniatures.
Wow.
Duplicate.
These are duplicates.
Well, where do you get all of these?
Different, you know, when you collect, you write and you contact people.
It's hand colored.
That's lovely.
But as you see, they're all in... Great condition.
Nice condition.
All these boxes are full of duplicates.
Miniature books.
You know, maybe 25 boxes, right?
Yeah, it sounds like they've stopped.
It hasn't even been opened.
That's fine.
Okay, now, let me turn that light on.
There's 58 boxes of bookstuff in the attic, which I've inventory.
That's part of the collection?
No, it's part of miscellaneous stuff.
That's one over the years.
An old bath over the kitchen.
Apparently, years ago, when people had servants, they were servants.
How is this house, 18th century house, would you say?
A central part of it is...
When we moved here, they told us over 200 here.
The living room wing and this kitchen wing are about 60 years old.
So we collect.
Jane, we collected these cookie boards.
And Jane collects irons.
She's got 170 irons.
You get them in the United States from Russia.
I remember buying this in Sri Lanka on New Year's Day.
only tougher than it was seen.
That had the coal set up when we bought it.
This came from India.
This came we found in a, this is Chinese iron muzzle, Chinese irons on hand.
It's like the panel is too long here.
We found that in a temple in Mandalay in Burma.
Wow.
And they were using it for junk, you know, buttons and beads and stuff.
Be prepared for a shot.
See, I'm still working.
These are all my work files, and I ran out of space.
Oh, we're going upstairs.
Yeah, we're going upstairs.
Ah, this is unbelievable.
This is unbelievable.
This is an old bathroom, right?
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
My wife has been drowning in squirrels there.
She catches them and drowns them in there.
This is
So I find myself at Goodspeed's bookstore.
They issued a publication for years called The Month.
They send it every month.
So I'm trying to complete a set of them.
They were really interesting little booklets in December of 35.
So what's that got to do with the other stuff I clicked?
Well, it's The Chase.
This place is unbelievable.
Now, is this where your main collection is, up here?
Well, it depends what you're looking at.
The book out of these, are they up here, too?
Yeah, they're up here.
Let me just step in here.
This is unbelievable.
I've got to get a picture of you in this room.
Just I'm going to stand out here.
This is great.
Great, okay.
These are, these are Roycroft.
These bottom three shelves are Charles Bukowski.
There's a lot of the ephemeral stuff there, you know, magazines and such.
I click Joseph Ferguson, nobody else does, but here are these two shelves.
Joseph Ferguson.
And you notice they're all in pretty nice condition.
These are in the glass bookcase.
Joseph Ferguson.
I don't know of this.
I'm going to write it down.
H?
H-E-R-G-E-S.
H-E-I-M-E-R.
And who is he?
Is he an American?
Yeah, he's an American.
Look down around Philadelphia.
Was he good?
Well, he was, he had his day.
I don't think many people collect him now.
Why did he collect him?
Well, it's a challenge.
I was trying to complete Pergussheimer.
Did you do it?
No, not yet.
How many are there?
Well, I had maybe three or four to go.
Out of how many?
Well, here they are.
One, two shelves.
I don't know, maybe 50.
Pergussheimer.
Here's some more of those rivers.
I don't even know what's up there.
The Yukon, the Niagara, the Cape Fear, the Susquehanna, the Merrimack.
I was a friend of the name of Kurt Volk who turned out some of his hobbies and things.
I'm collecting Kurt Volk.
He did some interesting things.
He calls his snowflake.
Please don't put my house in your book.
This is wonderful.
How's beautiful, Jane?
It's wonderful.
It feels like home.
You see, some people might... This is Snowflake by Jeremy, S-T-R-O-P, Jeremy.
And, you know, it's such a fragile thing.
It's just self-binding.
Well, we'll be through here in a minute.
We'll be through.
Now I can't stop.
We're not late.
He'll go on talking this way.
He gets wound up.
Now, these are books written by Walter Hart Blumenthal.
He wrote a lot of them.
I've been collecting not only oddities, but the things he... Well, that makes sense.
He wrote, you see.
He's a pretty good writer, by the way.
Yeah, Benjamin Franklin.
His comment on his wit and wisdom.
Oddities are in stride for me.
This is from Blumenfeld to Starrett.
My friend, I pray you read this script with open mind and then give it your gravamen.
It's true that cultist critics quipped and so on.
He called himself Hart, H-A-R-T.
Yeah.
Oh, there it is.
He published this when he had a bookstore, Hart Book Company.
1775 Broadway.
That's just a little north of the Columbus Circle.
And where would you find those today?
Where did you find them?
Well, a friend of mine had them, and he gave them to me.
That's great.
I swapped things.
But there are a lot of... There are a lot of... These are all... I think they're all Blooming Falls.
No, that's a guy by the name of Count Patalki.
I picked him.
He's a Polish.
He pretends to be a... Count?
Count.
He pretends to be the heir that's... The heir that was fallen in Poland.
Is he alive?
No, he is.
Yeah, he lives in France.
Count Batolki.
Yeah.
I collect Henry Miller first editions.
These are... This whole bookcase is Henry Miller.
He's tucked in the corner.
Yeah.
This, I collect the Maverick Press, which, let me see if I can... Oh, let's see, I've run out of space.
Maverick Press did some interesting things.
Let me see if I can get there.
Oh, here, so here's a... You made any trip?
Yeah.
Do you have any idea roughly how many items you have in the house?
50,000?
No, I think about, I think, not counting duplicates, maybe 15,000, judging by file cards.
Here's a, this is done by Bruce Rogers.
Oh, that's gorgeous.
BR, Bruce Rogers' Bible story.
It's a scroll.
Oh, and it's a miniature.
Yeah.
It's beautiful.
But I collected that as part of... But you keep it in a manila folder.
Well, see, I've never had time.
Little Orphan Ampersand.
Yeah.
And that's what we saw on the sandpaper, right?
Yeah, these are ephemeral things that they did.
Feet are like the cards announcing the sale they're on, I guess.
Those are nice.
Speaking of Gowdy.
And the Philip Duchenne manila envelope.
Yeah, well, I got a lot of these from them.
I'll put that back, so someday I can find it again.
Norman Douglas.
One, two, three shells.
And, uh,
This is probably the nicest portion I have.
A lot of this stuff is ephemeral.
I don't know where you'd find some of this today.
It's hard to keep them.
That's not going to come.
That's okay.
The kind of stuff that's here, you know, here is... Did you see your fist right here?
Is it an obsession?
No, I don't know.
It's under control.
I do other things.
I'm still working.
You've never overspent for anything?
I mean, overspent to the point where... I've never borrowed money to do it.
That's important, yeah.
Herpetology of the Grand... By Herman Douglas.
Oh.
He was quite a character.
I think this would have a home in a university collection someplace, I'll bet.
Yeah, probably.
He used the pseudonym first.
I know our M-Y-X.
Right.
Normix.
Isn't that great?
These are Book Club of California, Groyer.
All in their packages, as they were mailed to.
Bull and Bear.
And Lord knows what else.
Alembic Press, Allen Press.
This case was published by a letter written to her by a prime minister of England.
And here it is, you know, 10 Downing Street.
Mrs. Webb.
And you've got the letter.
I've got the letter.
Why don't you read it?
Dear Mrs. Webb, I hope you will not think it an impertinence.
On my part, if I tell you with what keen delight I have read Precious Fame.
That was her most famous book, and I have the dedication copy of that.
My people lived in Shropshire for centuries before they immigrated to Worcestershire, and I spent my earliest years in Beardsley, which is on the border.
In your book, I seem to hear again the speech and turn of phrase which surrounded me in the nursery.
I think it is a really first-class piece of work
and I have not enjoyed a book so much for years.
It was given to me by one of my secretaries, and I read it at Christmas within sight of the Clare Hills at home.
Thank you a thousand times for it.
Believe me, to remain sincerely your Stanley Baldwin.
Now, that's a nice letter to have.
Where did you find that?
I bought it.
From a dealer.
Yeah.
Were you collecting Mary Webb?
Now, how did you say that you said that made her famous?
What happened?
Was that published?
Yeah, it was published, yeah.
So that made her famous, right?
These are manuscripts of her poems, and I have some of her short stories.
And I had this case made, but shortly, when we're having lunch, I'll tell you.
Remind me of Mary Webb, and I'll tell you the story.
Here's a letter from David Randall.
David Randall, yep.
He's duped in large enough books.
Yeah.
How did you get on, Mary Webb?
Well, I don't know.
I don't know how I get started on things.
Okay.
We're in the book.
What this room is, this is the book audit, isn't it?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Well, yes and no.
These are most of us.
Look at them.
All first editions.
All in fine condition.
Where do you keep them?
I was glad to be able to get that.
That's a nice closet.
Box in there, you know.
Oh, it might come around here.
I've got to show you.
Miniature books.
Jesus.
This is a bureau now.
Oh, my God.
It's full of miniatures.
Thousands, right?
Yeah.
Three drawers, three giant drawers filled with miniature books.
Look at them.
That's very interesting.
You know, it's just done by a little girl.
And it's in her.
She wrote it, yeah.
The Pretty Rocks.
Yeah.
Here's a book called Haunted Pajamas.
It's in bounden pajama cloth.
Here's a book found in Horsod, Argentina.
Oh, this is the yard stuff.
Yeah.
There's a scroll from Lake Tana in Ethiopia.
What kind of skin?
Well, I mean, with this collection, you could be anything.
Can you get that?
I'm sorry.
See, if I figure I'll put that away later, then I don't do it.
So these are the oddities.
Well, this whole room is filled with oddities.
Any favorites?
No.
No, not really.
Did you have a book that was like 5 or 10 feet tall or something like that?
No, I don't have that.
This as well, is it?
What was that?
Well, I guess this is a binding.
It's an embroidered binding.
Jane gave that to me as a Christmas present.
You're right, right?
It's hard to find some brighter bindings in perfect condition, OK?
Hmm.
I found that in a cello-alto.
Binding?
Ivory?
Ivory.
There's a mock book.
What do you call it?
A mock book.
It looks like a book, but it isn't a book.
But it's still loaded.
Well, it's got booze in it.
It's got booze in it.
Mark M.O.C.K., Mark.
It's got all kinds of mock books.
Here's one.
Birthday, present, age nine years by Frank, you know.
Here's another one.
Got that in India by the Taj Mahal.
That's like the decoration on the Taj Mahal.
Here's a finger book.
Meaning what?
What is it?
Well, the shape of the finger.
Can I see it?
Yeah.
Is there a finger in it?
No, no.
It's just the shape of it, like a finger.
Oh, I see.
OK.
And it's printed.
I got it because it's printed sideways.
Oh, I get it.
OK.
It's long, but it's printed sideways.
Yeah.
This is a mock book.
History of the War.
It's a checkerboard.
I've never seen one with a carrying.
No, that's a book?
Yeah.
Oh, it's a mock book.
Oh, it's not a real book.
Okay.
No, it's a mock book.
Like this, you know, this is a bank.
Somebody just gave that to me, a dealer in Los Angeles.
We saw that one.
That's the one you got.
You got one of those from Seattle.
That's one of the ones that was in that.
Not the same one, though.
It looked like it.
Well, maybe it is.
That book is picked like a train.
There's one in, that looks like books in Rawhide up there.
They're looking in the package.
Right here on top.
It has animal voices.
Wait, is it ever anything printed in it?
No.
I don't remember.
It's on top of this giant cage.
Of course, there are books.
This is by Lynn Ward, the woodcutter, and it has no text.
No text.
It's titled Vertigo.
Yeah, he did three or four of them.
There's a book on palm leaves.
There's a mock book that's a flask.
Look at the odd paper in this one.
Yeah, that's great.
Okay, this is great.
Here's a round book.
Let me take a picture of that.
Let's see what we can get on it.
These are all other things.
But I haven't got them organized.
I ought to get different things together, you know.
I never had time to do it.
You could probably, at some point, if you wanted Delphes as a collection, the way you got Blumenthal's collection.
Well, Yale had an exhibit a couple years ago.
I went up to see it, and I put some of mine in a briefcase and took them in right away.
They really didn't have much.
Most of them are modern pop-ups.
That's it.
The Beinecke did this?
Yeah.
The Stirling Library.
The Stirling Library did it.
Yeah.
And... Billy Walker was the curator.
...down here.
She issued a catalog.
What does she have?
Do you have an extra copy of that?
No, she called an extra... A little bag of graffiti.
All sorts of things in here.
I think this is great.
Well, you know, you're welcome to look at anything.
No, I think I've got plenty of material to tell you.
These are all hogs.
There are bindings, there's colored paper, there's... The auto-guest book.
This is from the 20s, you know.
People go on a trip.
Have I ever seen upside-down books?
Say It With Bricks, Say It With Oil.
Okay, Say It With Bricks by Nina Wilcox.
Putnam.
On one side.
Upside Down, Say It With Oil.
By who?
Ring Lardner.
By Ring Lardner.
I have a dozen upside down books.
I set up some books in the living room.
What exactly is an upside down book?
You can read it this way or upside down.
But it's two different stories.
Yeah.
Would you like to see your collection of oddities set together after you're ready to part with it?
I really don't care.
No, I don't.
I let people say, well, we'll issue a catalog of Fred J. Ford's collection of book oddities.
I don't need it.
Nice, though.
That's what Jeremy Norman did for his father.
That was his gift.
He did a $600 catalog of his father's library.
It took him eight years to do it.
It's just out now.
And now his father said the same thing.
Well, it doesn't really matter to me what happens to it now that I've got the camera.
That doesn't really bother you one way or another.
No, not really.
Okay.
We're among your oddities.
Well, here are...
Some oddities.
Here's a book.
The pictures are all made on a typewriter.
A Japanese book with a doll attached to the front cover.
To me, it's a strange binding.
I searched for years to find that.
And a week later, I found another title for the doll.
What did you search the year for?
You knew it existed?
Yeah, I knew it existed.
This is a...
panorama of the Thames River.
That's beautiful.
That's nice.
Sixty feet long, hand color.
Sixty feet.
Yeah, it's perfect, perfect condition.
And how old is this?
This looks like it's been around for a while.
Yeah, I don't, I don't really recall.
I'm just looking for a date.
Price 18 shillings, so that's back a little way.
Mm-hmm.
There's an unusual binding.
It's bolded together.
Literally bolded together.
Persona.
P-E-R-S-O-N-A.
This book I got from Scotland.
Bold and Rare Scottish Tartans.
T-A-R-T-A-N-S.
Tartans in it.
The actual tartans.
That's wool.
Every time I open this, I hope I don't see moths.
This is very hard to find.
But they're all there.
Look how beautifully it's printed.
You know, I wish this was a functional book.
I wish this was a book used by, you know... It came from Edinburgh, 1980.
Here's a minute your book is shaped like a broom.
Okay.
This is what they call...
a letter press.
I've never seen another one or heard of one.
Before they had carbon paper, they used to make copies of letters this way.
This is sort of porous paper.
They would dampen it.
They would put the letter that they'd written face down on it, and then they'd lock it shut.
That's amazing.
What do you call it?
It's a letterpress, and you could read it from the other side, you see.
I've never, never heard of one.
Well, it would make a negative image, so it would have to come through on the other side.
I'll get it here.
It came from England.
Beautiful.
How old would you say that is?
It's got to be around, certainly before the invention of carbon paper, it's got to be... 1855.
Mm-hmm.
And what is he called?
No, that's another book.
S. Moderns and Company Patent Portable Copying Press.
A povo-sized book of 400 numbered flimsy pages for receiving copies of letters with two separate pages of thick-wheeled paper.
Around 1850.
That's kind of nice.
I love that.
As a matter of fact.
Here is one of the rag books, you know, that's for children, just undestructible, but this is dated, I think, 19... That's called Goosey Books, G-O-S-I-E.
1907.
The color's pretty good.
What fine condition that is for a book that's... Look at the color, huh?
...that age, you know?
Sure.
Most of them are all... 85 years old?
Yeah.
87.
Here's a book that I got because of the binding.
It's a corrugated board.
Imagine binding a book in a corrugated board.
Like cardboard?
Yeah, cardboard.
Like a case.
Right.
And a title of it.
I don't know what this is.
I have several books by him.
He must have been sort of erratic or aberrant.
The Song of Songs, which is Sullivan's.
There's one line on each page.
One line on each page.
For instance...
How art thou fair, karma, my love?
That's line 137.
Okay.
And he has these strange designs.
Now, look, he has written, that's handwritten, copyright, R-I-G-T, 1964.
04.
04, I'm sorry.
And he signed it, but he's written in copyright, R-I-G-T.
I have another one by him someplace.
This was done by the Baileys, the dealers out in... Oh, no, this is another one.
It's a tte--tte book.
This is not an upside-down book, but you put it on a table between two people.
So I work here, and you work there, so you can solve the...
So we can face each other and there are pages on the opposite sides.
I've never seen another one like that.
See, somebody has done a little... Tete-a-tete, so we can go head-to-head.
Tete-a-tete, yeah.
Oddity?
That's cute.
Do you agree these are oddity?
The Tete-a-tete book by Lassiter Wren.
This is a correction on purple paper.
This has got...
colored paper on it.
Strange.
This is a book shaped like an iron cross.
I never have quite figured out how to... I have to get the light here.
Look at this.
These anagrams.
And these letters are scored.
I don't know if you can see the scoring, but they're squares of about an inch.
Oh, sure.
Yep.
You could check them out.
1929.
Here's a flip book.
This guy is working on a butterfly.
He eventually swallows it.
That's great.
That's funny.
There is, oh, this is sort of an understatement.
Anatomy of the Human Head.
This is handwritten instructions for the House of Lords, the upper house, House of Lords, how they conduct themselves when the king is there, or when the king isn't there.
And it's all done by hand.
You know, 1641...
1673, sort of, it's a manuscript.
The dealer quoted me a book like this recently, and I wondered if one or the other was a forgery.
Read my lips.
Cute.
I got this from the Bromers because of the silver plaque on the cover, and this is gold, 1758.
This came from the Baileys in Victoria and whatever his name is, the dealers out in California.
And why they would ever publish a book on that color paper, I wouldn't know.
You can't read it, you know.
But it's a limited edition.
Oh, kiss me, son.
A hundred colors.
It's funny.
It's shaped like a triangle.
Yeah, this is...
This is a wash drawing.
Those are cut out figures with feathers pasted on them.
It's a strange concept.
Look at the work that went into that.
See, the cow is cut out, the figure is cut out.
This is painted here, and then there are feathers.
Now, you must admit that's an oddity.
Yeah, but it's cleverly done, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, these are photographs of some kind.
I mean, that's a film.
And they're acoustics.
I've never figured it out.
But it must be early for...
1870 for this kind of illustration.
See that?
Yeah, it's amazing.
This is quite a collection.
Remember how you used to drop an ink on a paper and fold it?
Well, there was a book.
Called the Blatt Book, and it's like a Rorschach test.
Yeah.
Emily Robinson 1917, yeah.
They're also my blot.
Yeah, well, it's, to me, an oddity.
A friend of mine made this for me.
Ha, ha.
That's a jug coming up.
Yeah, a bottle of booze in there.
He's a very clever fellow.
I've got this book.
That's one of my pop-up books.
You do?
Yeah, the Facts of Life.
That's an interesting pop-up, isn't it?
It sure is.
Yeah.
I have that.
That was fascinating.
Jonathan Miller and David Pelham.
I just bought this a couple weeks ago on an antique show.
That's cork.
Covers are cork, rough cork, and the pages are thin sheets of cork.
But does it have anything in it?
It isn't printed, no.
Sheets of cork.
Yeah, I have a Hamlet printed in Spain, a book like that.
That's printed on thin sheets of cork.
Oh, here.
Here's a child's book.
Disney Sound Story.
We have that book.
My daughter's had that book.
Yep.
Here it talks about, you know, laughing.
You push a button, then you get goofy, and you get... And the beat.
And the hammer.
How do we get that for?
Yeah.
That's cute.
It came from France.
That's a book, like a triangle, shaped book.
Oh, this is, I guess, concrete poetry.
Strange stuff, huh?
Yeah, it's funny.
It looks like a flash.
This is the original case, which is amazing because
It's from 1779.
It's a dos-a-do with guffered edges.
What do you call it?
Back-to-back book, dos-a-do.
D-O-S is the French word for back, dos-a-do.
That's beautiful.
That's really quite beautiful.
Three covers.
1799, and it's in the original case.
It's like an accordion almost.
Yeah.
Oh, this is a... Well, I've forgotten what this is, but you... It's odd, huh?
It's pictures of stamps or something, or... You know, it's... Probably stamps of... It's a scriptured textbook.
It's a combination diary in 1820-something, and these are...
scripture in the notes over here, you know, somebody's birthday.
See, here it is.
This record book of his prisoners by Warden at the Mantua Prison in Ireland, 1856 and 57.
This is record book.
Here's prisoner number one.
James Montgomery, night thing or whatever it is, age 38, convicted in Dublin of uttering a forged deed.
Sentenced six years, penal servitude.
Clerk in the office of something.
Railroad.
Railroad company.
And he's got his...
Dennis Lallon, prisoner number Loughlin, age 20, convicted in court of burglary and robbery, sentenced to 14 years transportation.
This prisoner was 15 times previously convicted of larcenies.
That's where I got the heavy time.
To me, that's an odd one.
Yeah, that is.
What is this?
Oh, think of the work that went into this.
Somebody has drawn these designs, and it used to be a hobby of people.
They'd cut out seals and such from envelopes and stationery.
And this person has made these designs and pasted in the seals.
But look at the work that went into that.
Some of them have been identified in it.
You know, it's unique.
There couldn't be another one.
Every design is different.
That's amazing.
Isn't that amazing?
Yeah, that really is.
Marine plants.
I said it's hard to get these plants in good condition, you know, but look at this.
Seaweeds.
These are actual seaweeds that are laid in, pasted in, one per page.
Look at the look.
They're all there.
They're not identified, though, are they?
No, I don't think so.
No, they're beautiful, though.
Look at that.
It's called P-L-A-N-T-E-S, Plants, Marines.
This is called C-O-T-E-S with a little accent, West of France.
West side of France.
These are actual seaweeds.
That's magnificent.